The general good experience. Um, to bring it back to your work.
One of the things that you talked about was eyesight and, um,
regaining eyesight, or dealing with people that have weakening eyesight.
My eyesight is going to, man. Do you have some getting older? No.
And I'm just old 52 and just there's the macular degeneration.
Like I can't, I mean, I can read my phone.
I can read all these text messages that are coming in 14 new ones since I put my
phone down.
But what I do know for sure is that my vision is not as good as it was 10 years
ago. And certainly not as good as it was 20 years ago. What are you done? Okay.
So there's what can be done now and where we're headed,
but I suspect you want to know what can be done now fix my eyes. Okay.
So we do have a clinical trial in my lab right now through my affiliation with
ophthalmology, where, uh, people put on VR goggles,
very separate from the fear inducing thing.
It's actually a very pleasant experience.
And we use a particular pattern of stimulation that
activates the cells in the eye that are most vulnerable and create vision loss.
It stimulates those in a way that reinforces their connections with the brain.
That's the logic. So every cell in your eye has a different function,
but some of them,
their job is to transmit visual information to the rest of the brain.
They're called ganglion cells.
We know what patterns of activity make them healthy and what
reinforced regeneration. Back in 2016,
my lab published a paper showing that that particular pattern of stimulation
combined with a particular pattern of gene therapy.
So this is one injection into the eye of a gene that triggers growth of these
cells in mice that allowed regeneration of neurons that were
damaged. And it actually reversed slightly,
but it reversed blindness completely blind mice were able to see again. Oh,
so that was in mice.
We then took that built a human clinical trial using just the VR
part. However, some people in this trial are receiving injections.
It's about once every month,
very painless injection into what we call the vitreous to the eye.
They shoot it right in the eyeball. Yeah,
just a little insulin syringe go right in. You look that way. Boom.
A skilled ophthalmologist can do this without any pain or anything.
I know it sounds terrible, but it's,
it's very straightforward to inject something called silica
CNTF ciliary near trophic factor and the combination of this
growth factor. Plus the visual stimulation we believe is going to protect
cells that would normally be lost from getting lost. So offset vision loss,
and potentially restore vision. Now the results of this trial aren't done,
but we are recruiting people for this trial. Jamie you're in.
My eyes are good. And.
If the prisoners okay. And if the prisoners are really bad people,
but they can't see that good. The.
Injection part provided it's done by a really by a skilled ophthalmologists is,
is an it's a, it's a cinch.
You you've been through way worse this morning on your way to work. Trust me.
So it's, it's nothing.
The other thing is that there was a paper published just recently,
a couple of weeks ago, not from my lab,
but from a group over at university college, London,
looking at the effects of red light on mitochondria in a different cell type,
which are the photo receptors of the eye.
So you've got the cells that connect the eye,
the brain called the ganglion cells. And you got the photo receptors,
which take all this photon information,
turn it into this incredible thing we call vision,
which itself has a whole galaxy of information, but is amazing.
And those cells degenerate over time. The photoreceptors,
they don't do very well in part because as we age,
the mitochondrial function gets disrupted. This study was preliminary.
It wasn't very many subjects. I think it was only 20 subjects. Maybe it was 12,
but getting red light therapy,
just viewing a very bright flashes of red light of a particular wavelengths.
I don't want people going out there and blasting their eyes,
improved vision on vision tasks almost immediately.
And that's a very noninvasive approach. And.
I have a, one of those red light therapy machines.
One of those shoes. Yeah. A little different than this.
If you're interested in doing this, let me know. And we can, you know,
potentially plug you into this, um.
Be the difference between that red light therapy and the other kind of red light
therapy. Cause I really liked that juve thing. I'm not,
I'm not exactly sure what it does.
It's supposed to like regenerate college in and do a bunch of different things
that helps you, but it feels good. It feels good to stand in front of it.
And the bright.
Lift, you know, one of the things is,
remember we're saying that the eyes are actually a piece of brain.
The brain needs to know when to be awake and when to be asleep.
One of the best ways to wake up your brain is to view bright light.
And you know,
there are all these people that are fanatic about blue light out there viewing
bright light in the morning from sunlight is the Mo is the best thing like in
Southern California, go outside two to 10 minutes, again, bright light.
And then you want to avoid light from like 11:00 PM to 4:00 AM actually has been
shown to suppress melatonin. It can disrupt sleep. It has a lot of problems.
You don't really want to be looking at any bright light in the middle of the
night. A lot of people get obsessed with blue light being bad.
You want bright light during the day and you don't want any bright light at
night, really too much of it. And people come after me though,
like the blue blockers, you know,
I call it like the blue block in east does have been coming after me recently
because I'm out there saying like, it's like, what about the it's like, look,
the blue block yours will help filter some light. It'll make things less bright.
It's hard to see with sunglasses in your house. So be my guest and wear them.
But really what you want to do is dim the lights in the evening, deeper sleep,
melatonin, suppression. Isn't, won't be a problem. That'll that's all good.
Get bright light,
first thing in the morning when you wake up and then the bright red light is
probably having a dual effect.
It's probably increasing mitochondria in the photo receptors if the study is
right.
And I do believe this study isn't it looks really good to me and the person who
did it has been in the game a long time. So I trust him.
And in addition to that,
it's going to wake up your system and get the balance of these hormones.
Like you want cortisol high in the morning and,
and melatonin coming up about 16 hours later before sleep,
it's going to put all that into the right rhythm. So I say,
go ahead and do the red light thing.
But if you want to pursue the red light flashes or the VR,
and maybe even the CNTF injection where we should talk about that, CNTF.
Injects mean the, they squirt it right in your eyeball.
That's the growth factor. Yeah. But I'm scared of.
That. Well, well the good, the news is.
The good news is that the VR,
we do have a condition in the study where it's just VR.
So it's a daily at you're essentially, you know, neurons like to be active.
And these cells that connect the eye, the brain are the most above all others,
the most active neurons and cells in your entire.
Body. I don't know of anybody who's done this, where they had the injections.
In the eyes. Oh yeah.
Many people now in the study have had the injections we had gotten to the
benefits of the, of the, well, so I want to be careful.
I can't talk about the results of a clinical trial,
but I can say they're promising and this is inhuman.
Just wink. If you think I should do it, uh, wink, if you can fix my eyes.
I think if you.
If you qualify for the study, I definitely think you should do it. Um, but I,
I can't reveal that, uh, the results of the study,
cause I actually don't know in the name of good science,
I'm blinded to the conditions, no pun. Right. Like I just don't know,
but we have, we have subjects or patients that are as young, as 17,
as old as 80. Um, and the, the beauty of this is that it's,
uh, if you decide not to get the injection, it's completely non-invasive okay.
And how many injections do you have to have?
I think it's a once a month for a period of about six months. So.
What I have to go to the bay area once a month.
Yeah, no. So there,
so there is another version of this where there's a slow release polymer
capsule. That's, that's placed into the eye. That sounds even worse.
Just inject me and get it over with someday.
We will have drops that we'll get through the vitreous and down there.
Cause they're like, like we work on glaucoma in my lab,
people for glaucoma take, uh, drops, rye pressure. Um,
but getting things into, you know, remember it's brain.
And so there's a reason why you have this tough skull. They're.
Not going to be able to think that way. Okay. Yeah. The,
the brain thing is really my head up.
The fact that your eyeballs are you're exposed.
Versus the brain. That is so nice. It's two pieces.
Of the brain. And so visual repair is soon going to go the way of two other
strategies.
And I think we're going to see this in humans in the next couple of years,
meaning two years.
Cause I hate the 10 years thing we've been hearing the 10 years thing forever.
One is the work of someone that you've had on here before Davidson.
Claire love that dude. He's great. He's terrific guy,
both for sake of his work on combating aging and also just,
I really have to tip my hat to him because he was really first man in,
in terms of doing public facing science education,
through podcasts and things like that. And you know, I'm,
I'm starting to do that and others are starting to do it and he deserves credit
for that.
It puts scientists in a vulnerable place and I think he's doing it with a lot of
it integrity. And he's also got a fun personality, so great guy. Yeah.
So for him to get the point across.
So David's not typically known for doing vision research,
but he paired up with another guy, his lab, a guy named Keegan.
He at Harvard children's hospital, someone I know very well,
we worked together on a number of things and they took advantage of what are
they called? These Yamanaka factors.
Yamanaka won the Nobel prize prize for finding these four factors that could
essentially allow a cell to turn into anything.
Any other cell type kind of create stemness in the cells,
make them pluripotent stem cells.
The problem was that tends to induce cancers in these cells.
So David's lab has combined an anti cancer gene. I think these,
these work are still not published, but he's talked about them.
So I feel comfortable doing this suppresses cancer while turning these cells
young again. And at least in mice, they see some very encouraging results.
So that would be a sort of one injection kind of thing where you go in,
once you get the injection and then never again. And if.
I did an injection once a month, how long we talking, how many months.
For,
so the study would probably run for about six months or the embedded capsule,
the CNTF capsule combined with the VR.
Now you have to put those VR goggles on for 20 minutes a day and watch that's
easy. You can listen to music and do whatever you want.
It's a very passive thing that triggers activity, the cells.
The activity is key because we know that neurons, you know,
you hear fire together wire together and all this other stuff.
But the fact that matter is neurons that are quieted. Even if you cast an arm,
the neurons that support moving to that arm very quickly start to turn off and
eventually they can die.
So keeping neurons active and alive and healthy involves keeping them literally
active electrically. And so that's what this, the VR components about.
So there's the Sinclair kind of turning back the clock stuff.
And then colleagues of mine at Stanford are doing incredible work with neural
prosthesis prostheses. So little robotic retinas,
as well as stem cells that are injected into the eye that settled down into your
eye and give you the cells that you've lost.
And we're not quite there with the human trials yet, but there's a group,
the retinal repair initiative on part of this thing,
it has a kind of funny name, but it's called the retinal dream team,
which is a bunch of people brought together to, to cure blindness,
to solve blindness in a particular D's disease called neurofibromatosis.
So there are dozens of labs working extremely hard on this problem.
This is one place where I can say there's been tremendous progress in the last
five years. There are clinical trials. Now for instance,
the one in my lab and in two or three years,
you're going to start seeing people who would normally go blind.
You're going to halt that.
And you're going to see people who are completely blind.
I think eventually those people will see again.
Wow. Yeah. I have a amazing, it's amazing. And you know.
Blind people that mental real, the, the mental real estate,
but like the visual real estate in the brain gets taken over by other functions.
I, um, there's this guy, Dan man Siena, he's a skateboarder is completely blind.
He's amazing guy.
And keyboards blind with a cane, whoa, rides up to rides up to curves.
And handrails all he's onto him. Kick flips out this kind of stuff. Regular.
Yeah. And,
and I've talked to him a bunch of times because he was having some issues with
his sleep because at one of the issues that blind people have is because light
is controlling when to be alert and when to be asleep,
he was having some issues with this. So he contacted me. We're also in touch.
Cause we're trying to,
he's trying to build skate parks for blind kids so that they can oh yeah.
Check out Dan.
Wow. That's insane. Such a beast.
I mean, most people would be, would be afraid to do this without. Yeah,
that's crazy. Yeah. And what's, what's so great about Dan, is he also,
you know.
He's in, he's in graduate school. He's I mean, he is such a mess.
Things. So he knows where they are,
but how does he know the scale of the ramp or the pitch of the ramp?
He has an internal representation of it.
Wow. Yeah. That's bonkers.
He's from which she could see how cool it is.
Yeah. Yeah. He's a, he teaches blind kids. Like what's possible basically.
Cause talk about COVID and being indoors, blind, blind people.
I spent a lot of time with blind people because of the visual restoration stuff.
And there are people like Dan who are out there trying to get blind people to
come out of their rooms, to get into society.
If you have a dog you're better off, right? Because the dog,
you outsource your vision to the dog.
There are now glasses that blind people can wear and walk down the street.
And it communicates with somebody in a, like a dispatcher who says, oh,
you know what? There's someone sketchy over there to your right.
You don't want to cross the street. And it works really well,
but it's very expensive. And of course, privacy is an issue. You get home,
you start on dressing, you know,
you don't want the person like looking at you in the mirror. Right. Um,
you know, or maybe people do, but that's a whole different business, you know,
but, but people like Dan are amazing. And, and I do believe, you know,
the hope is that people like Dan will eventually see it again. Um,
but that's going to require new cells and actually for him,
he's going to need new eyes. So Dan actually has had, um,
because he had this coat's disease that led to at retinitis pigmentosa,
he had his eyes removed. So whenever people are like,
sometimes you'll see on social media, people will say,
I don't believe he's blind. It's like guy doesn't even have eyes. So.
Anyway, there's a lot, that's a whole universe of stuff.
But if you'd like to explore visual repair and visual restoration,
offsetting vision loss more, um, the happy to, yeah.
I would love to. Yeah. I'll be your Guinea pig. Get the party rolling. Okay.